USEID-663: Add ADR for git branching strategy (#141)
digitalservicebund/useid-backend-service: doc/adr/0015-git-branching-strategy.md

# 15. Git branching strategy

Date: 2022-11-28

## Status

Accepted

## Context

During development, the are different git branches in our repository. When merging them, there are multiple possibilities, so for a clean repository, there is a decision needed.

See also the ADR for the corresponding app: [useid-app-ios/0003-branching-strategy](https://github.com/digitalservicebund/useid-app-ios/blob/e76dababb2015fa05ddabb60a29827892502dad0/doc/adr/0003-branching-strategy.md)

## Decision

As our main development branch we use the `main` branch (there is currently no need for a separate `develop` branch). We strive for keeping a linear git history on those branches if possible ([A tidy, linear Git history](https://www.bitsnbites.eu/a-tidy-linear-git-history/) for some rationale), therefore we use fast-forward merges instead of merge commits when merging pull requests. Merges should be done by the author of the pull request by rebasing and/or squashing and fast-forward merging into `main`.

> > TBD: Use Github-PR-Squash-and-Merge or not?

Author: We need to discuss, if we want to use the "Squash and merge" button from Github or not.
**Advantage**: Easy to use. Merging can be done from Github without any further steps, even when there are multiple commits.
**Disadvantage**: Commits that are created that way are not signed by the committer.

Reviewer: I vote for using it.

# 15. Git branching strategy

Date: 2022-11-28

## Status

Accepted

## Context

During development, there are different git branches in our repository. When merging them, there are multiple possibilities, so for a clean repository, there is a decision needed.

See also the ADR for the corresponding app: [useid-app-ios/0003-branching-strategy](https://github.com/digitalservicebund/useid-app-ios/blob/e76dababb2015fa05ddabb60a29827892502dad0/doc/adr/0003-branching-strategy.md)

## Decision

> As our main development branch we use the `main` branch (there is currently no need for a separate `develop` branch). We strive for keeping a linear git history on those branches if possible ([A tidy, linear Git history](https://www.bitsnbites.eu/a-tidy-linear-git-history/) for some rationale), therefore we use fast-forward merges instead of merge commits when merging pull requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As our main development branch we use the `main` branch. We strive for keeping a linear git history on this branch if possible ([A tidy, linear Git history](https://www.bitsnbites.eu/a-tidy-linear-git-history/) for some rationale), therefore we use fast-forward merges instead of merge commits when merging pull requests.
```

Merges should be done locally by rebasing and/or squashing and fast-forward merging into `main`. Since all commits inside pull requests are signed and pull requests are reviewed by team members, we also accept to merge using GitHub's "Squash and merge".

Merges should be done by the author of the pull request after getting approval by another team member.

All commits on `main` branch are signed (either by committer or by GitHub) and that branch is protected from rewriting history.

> 

Reviewer 3: should we add "all merged branches should be delete, in order to keep our repository clean" ?
